# Project5Group10

Jaden Gant - Submitted Report on Brightspace. Jaden Gant - Submitted Vocareum workspace.

Note: When using any text fields, never use the word "Random", "null", or the symbol "@".
Also, any time client.java closes or ends, server.java will continue running.

This project has two classes, Server and Client. In order to run the program, first run Server.java. That will open the server. Then, run Client.java in
a different terminal, this will open the client side. A pop up window for login will appear and the user can begin using the program.
Multiple users can use this program at the same time. To do this, open up another terminal and run Client.java. Now multiple users can use this program concurrently.

The client class handles all GUI. This class utilizes both simple GUI and complex GUI, but it uses JOptionPane much more. Users enter information into the client class' GUI, and the client sends over that information to the server using network IO. Then the server sends back the necessary information to the client side and the client creates GUI's with this information. This is how the client class and server class interact with each other on a basic level.

The server class handles storing and retrieving all information. This is done with file IO and all file readings and writings are done in methods in the server class. Additionally, the server class handles all multithreading.

Once the client and server are connected, the program begins by prompting the user to enter if they are a student or teacher using a drop down menu and then clicking ok. Then they are prompted to enter if they want to login or create an account using a drop down menu. If the user chooses to create an account, they will be prompted to enter a username and password using two JOptionPane input dialogs. If the username and password are valid, meaning that the username is not already taken, the account will be created and the user will be logged in. However, if the user leaves a text field empty or if the username is taken, they are prompted with the appropriate error message and client.java ends. If the user chooses login, they will be prompted to enter a username and password using two JOptionPane input dialogs. If the username and password are valid, meaning that an account with the same username and password has already been created, the user will be logged on. However, if the user leaves a text field empty or an account with the same username and password has not yet been created, they are prompted with the appropriate error message and client.java ends. If at any point the user selects the exit button on the top right or cancels, client.java will end.

Once a user is logged on, they are given options via a drop down menu on what they can do based on if they are a student or teacher account.
The teacher account can add courses, delete a course, create a quiz, edit a quiz, delete a quiz, upload a quiz, view scores, edit account, delete account, and log out. All courses, quizzes, scores, etc are viewable/editable (when applicable) by all teachers.
The student account can take a quiz, view scores, edit accounts, delete accounts, and log out.
These drop down menus are considered the main menu, and the student or teacher will be returned to their respective main menu each time they complete their task. Students can take any quiz in any course, however they can only view their own scores.

I will now explain the progression of what happens when each task is selected.
Note: Any time the user clicks the exit button or cancels, client.java will close.

Teacher:

Add course - the teacher is prompted to add a course name using an input dialog. If the course name is already in use, the user will be prompted and returned to the main menu. If the course name is available, the course will be created under that name.

Delete course - the teacher is prompted to choose a course to delete via a drop down menu of all current courses. The course the teacher selects will be deleted as a course. Therefore, the course and all of its quizzes will not be viewable/editable/takeable by any teachers or students.

Create a quiz - the teacher is prompted to choose a course to enter via a drop down menu. If no course is created yet, the appropriate error message will appear and the teacher will return to the main menu. Once the teacher chooses a course, they are prompted to enter a title. If there is already a quiz under the same name, the appropriate error message will appear and the teacher will be returned to the main menu. Once the title is entered, a complex gui will appear, where the teacher will enter a quiz question, the correct answer to the question, and three other incorrect answers to the question. The teacher will submit this with the "submit" button. If any fields are left blank, the appropriate error message will appear and the teacher will be returned to the main menu. Once a teacher submits a question, they are given the option for if they would like to make this quiz have randomized question orders via a drop
down menu. After choosing this, it is at this point that the quiz is created. The teacher will then enter a loop that prompts them to choose whether or not to add another question via a drop down menu. If they choose yes, they will add a question the same as before and after they submit they will be prompted again to choose to add another question. Once they choose no, the teacher is returned to the main menu.

Edit a quiz - the teacher is prompted to choose a course to enter via a drop down menu. If no course is created yet, the appropriate error message will appear and the teacher will return to the main menu. Once the teacher chooses a course, they are prompted to choose a quiz to enter via a drop down menu. If no quiz is created yet, the appropriate error message will appear and the teacher will return to the main menu. Once the teacher chooses a quiz, they are prompted to choose to either add or delete a question. If the teacher chooses to add a question, a complex gui will appear, where the teacher will enter a quiz question, the correct answer to the question, and three other incorrect answers to the question. The teacher will submit this with the "submit" button. If any fields are left blank, the appropriate error message will appear and the teacher will be returned to the main menu. Once a teacher submits a question,
they are returned to the main menu. If the teacher chooses to delete a question, they are prompted to choose a question to delete via a drop down menu of all the questions in that specific quiz. Once a question is chosen, that specific question is deleted from the chosen quiz and the teacher is returned to the main menu.

Delete a quiz - the teacher is prompted to choose a course to enter via a drop down menu. If no course is created yet, the appropriate error message will appear and the teacher will return to the main menu. Once the teacher chooses a course, they are prompted to choose a quiz to enter via a drop down menu.
If no quiz is created yet, the appropriate error message will appear and the teacher will return to the main menu. Once the teacher chooses a quiz, that quiz will be deleted from the course, and the teacher will be returned to the main menu.

Upload a quiz - the teacher is prompted to choose a course to enter via a drop down menu. If no course is created yet, the appropriate error message will appear and the teacher will return to the main menu. Once the teacher chooses a course, they will be prompted to enter the file path of the quiz to upload. IMPORTANT: the format of the quiz to upload must be this: the first line of the file will be the quiz title, the second line will be a question statement, the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth lines will be the different answer choices(don't label them with a, b, c, d), and the seventh line will be correct answer. The string of the correct answer must match the string of the answer choice in one of the previous 4 lines. Then, the next line (line 8) is the next question statement, and so on. Once the file path is entered, if the file is in the incorrect format, the appropriate error message will appear and the
the teacher will return to the main menu. If the file is in the correct format the appropriate success message will appear and the teacher will be returned to the main menu.

View scores - the teacher is prompted to choose a student to view the scores of via a drop down menu. If no student has an account yet, the appropriate error message will appear and the teacher will return to the main menu. Once a teacher chooses a student, they can select which quiz attempt to view. If no student has attempted a quiz yet, the appropriate error message will appear and the teacher will return to the main menu. Once a quiz attempt is chosen, the submission time and score is shown to the teacher via a simple gui. Then the teacher is prompted to choose if they would like to view individual questions of that quiz attempt. If they choose no, they will be returned to the main menu. If they choose yes, they will be prompted to choose a question via a drop down menu. The drop down menu contains the question number, question statement, and if the student got the question correct or not. Once the teacher chooses a specific question, that same information will be displayed via a simple gui and the teacher is returned to the main menu.

Edit account - the teacher is prompted to choose if they would like to change their password. If they choose no they will be returned to the main menu. If they choose yes they will enter a new password via an input dialog. If the text field is empty,  the appropriate error message will appear and the teacher will return to the main menu. Otherwise, the password will be updated and the teacher will return to the main menu.

Delete account - the teacher is prompted to choose if they would like to delete their password account. If they choose yet they are prompted that the account has been deleted and client.java ends. If they choose no, they are returned to the main menu.

Log Out - client.java ends

Student: 

Take a quiz - the student is prompted to choose a course to enter via a drop down menu. If no course is created yet, the appropriate error message will appear and the student will return to the main menu. Once the student chooses a course, they are prompted to choose a quiz to enter via a drop down menu. If no quiz is created yet, the appropriate error message will appear and the student will return to the main menu. Once the student chooses a quiz, they can choose to take the quiz by uploading a file or by doing it manually. If they choose to upload a file, they will be given each question and their options using multiple JOptionPane information messages. The user will then write the string of each correct answer (excluding the letter, colon, and comma), each on a separate line of the file starting with the first line in the order the questions appeared. Then, the user is prompted to enter the filepath of the file they just wrote their answers in. If the file is in the correct format, the student will complete the quiz and return to the main menu. If the file path is in the incorrect format, the appropriate error message will appear and the student will return to the main menu. If the student chooses to take the question manually, each question will appear via its own drop down menu with the answer choices. The student will select and enter answers that way. If they complete all questions the quiz will be completed and the student will be returned to the main menu. If at any point the student exits the quiz or the program shuts down, all answered question’s progress is saved and the user can re enter that quiz at the point they left off at. Random quizzes give the student questions in a random order that is determined at the beginning of the quiz. If the student logs off during a random quiz, no problems occur. Each time the student attempts a random quiz, the question order is randomized. Answer choices orders (a, b, c, d) are always randomized. Once a student completes a quiz they are returned to the main menu.

View scores -  The student is prompted to choose which quiz attempt to view. If no quiz has been attempted yet yet, the appropriate error message will appear and the teacher will return to the main menu. Once a quiz attempt is chosen, the submission time and score is shown to the student via a simple gui. Then the student is prompted to choose if they would like to view individual questions of that quiz attempt. If they choose no, they will be returned to the main menu. If they choose yes, they will be prompted to choose a question via a drop down menu. The drop down menu contains the question number, question statement, and if the student got the question correct or not. Once the student chooses a specific question, that same information will be displayed via a simple gui and the student is returned to the main menu.

Edit account - the student is prompted to choose if they would like to change their password. If they choose no they will be returned to the main menu. If they choose yes they will enter a new password via an input dialog. If the text field is empty,  the appropriate error message will appear and the student will return to the main menu. Otherwise, the password will be updated and the student will return to the main menu.

Delete account - the student is prompted to choose if they would like to delete their password account. If they choose yet they are prompted that the account has been deleted and client.java ends. If they choose no, they are returned to the main menu.

Log Out - client.java ends

Implementation requirements:

File Imports - teachers can create a quiz by uploading a file in the correct format, and students can take a quiz by uploading a file in the correct format. All file imports occur as a prompt to enter file path.

Randomization - teachers can choose whether or not to randomize the quizzes they create/upload. If they do, when students take the quiz, the questions will be given in a random order. Students receive a different order with every attempt. Quiz answer options (A, B, C, D) are always randomized. 

Grading - teachers can view all students’ quiz scores, the time each student submitted, and each specific question and whether or not the student got it correct. Students can view all of their quiz scores, the time they submitted each quiz, and each specific question and whether or not they got it correct. 

Testing:

Creating an account, logging out, then logging back in - user chooses student, user chooses login, user enters Jaden, user enters Gant, error message saying account doesn’t exist, user reopens client.java, user chooses student, user chooses create an account, user enters Jaden, user enters Gant, success message saying account created, user is brought to main menu, user chooses log out, client.java ends, user reopens client.java, user chooses student, user chooses login, user enters Jaden, user enters Gant, user is brought to main menu.
